BBA 406 [A] : ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
Section I
 Definition of entrepreneurship - A conceptual model of entrepreneurship - Views of
Schumpeter, Walker and Drucker - Entrepreneurship culture - trail of a true entrepreneur.
 Entrepreneur & Manager.
 Entrepreneurial Motivation - Motivation factors - entrepreneurial ambitions Compelling
factors - Facilitating factors - The Achievement Motivation Theory - The Kakinada
Experiment Establishing idea - Source of ideas, idea processing - selection of idea-input
requirement, personnel finance, information and intelligences - Role of industrial fairs. Start
your own business or buy an existing one: Advantages and disadvantages. Evaluating the
existing business.
Section II
 Policy Incentive for entrepreneurial growth small scale Industrial Policy-Meaning of
incentives and subsidies. Need for incentives and subsidies - Institutions assisting
entrepreneurs - Role of District Industry Centres.
Section III
 Definition of small business - The benefits & opportunities of small business ownership -
The potential drawbacks of entrepreneurship. Strategic Planning for small business - steps in
Strategic Planning.
 Steps for starting a small industry - Selection of product form of ownership, Preparation
of project report, Registration as SSI, Power connection obtaining license compliance under
Factories Act, Arrangement of finances, Presentation of Project Report.
Text Books:
1. Hisrich, Robert and Peters, Michael, (2002), Entrepreneurship, 5th Edition, McGraw Hill
Education.
2. Charantimani, (2006), Entrepreneurship Development and Small Business Enterprise, 1st
edition, Pearson Education.
Reference Books:
1. Chandra, Ravi, (2003), Entrepreneurial Success: A Psychological Study, Sterling Publication
Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.
2. Balaraju, Theduri, (2004), Entrepreneurship Development: An Analytical Study, Akansha
Publishing House, New Delhi.
3. David, Otes, (2004), A Guide to Entrepreneurship, Jaico Books Publishing House, Delhi.
4. Kaulgud, Aruna, (2003), Entrepreneurship Management, Vikas Publishing House, Delhi.