BCA-203 SYSTEM ANALYSIS & DESIGN
Introduction to SAD
Fundamentals of System, Important Terms related to Systems, Classification of Systems, Real Life
Business Subsystems, Real Time Systems, Distributed Systems, Development of a successful
System, Various Approaches for development of Information Systems. Structured Analysis and
Design Approach, Prototype, Joint Application Development.
Systems Analyst-A Profession
Why do Businesses need Systems Analysts? Users, Analysts in various functional areas, Role of a
Systems Analyst Duties of a Systems Analyst, Qualifications of a Systems Analyst, Analytical
Skills, Technical Skills, Management Skills, Interpersonal Skills.
Process of System Development
Systems Development Life Cycle, Phases of SDLC, Project Identification and Selection, Project
Initiation and planning, Analysis, Logical Design, Physical Design, Implementation, Maintenance,
Product of SDLC Phases, Approaches to Development, Prototyping, Joint Application Design,
Participatory Design, Case Study.
Introduction to Documentation of Systems
Concepts and process of Documentation, Types of Documentation, System Requirements
Specification, System Design Specification, Test Design Document, User Manual, Different
Standard for Documentation, Documentation and Quality of Software, Good Practices for
Documentation.
Planning and Designing Systems
Process of System Planning: Fact finding Techniques, Interviews, Group Discussion, Site Visits,
Presentations, Questionnaires, Issues involved in Feasibility Study, Technical Feasibility,
Operational Feasibility, Economic Feasibility, Legal Feasibility, Cost Benefit Analysis, Preparing
Schedule, Gathering Requirements of System, Joint Application Development, Prototyping.
Modular and Structured Design
Design Principles, Top Down Design, Bottom Up Design, Structure Charts, Modularity, Goals of
Design, Coupling, Cohesion.
System Design and Modelling
Logical and Physical Design, Process Modeling, Data Flow Diagrams, Data Modeling, E-R
Diagrams, Process Specification Tools, Decision Tables, Decision Trees, Notation Structured
English, Data Dictionary.
More Design Issues and CASE Tools
Forms and Reports Design: Forms, Importance of Forms, Reports, Importance of Reports,
Differences between Forms and Reports, Process of Designing Forms and Reports, Deliverables and
Outcomes, Design Specifications, Narrative Overviews, Sample Design, Testing and Usability
Assessment, Types of Information, Internal Information, External Information, Turnaround
Document, General Formatting Guidelines, Meaningful Titles, Meaningful Information, Balanced
Layout, Easy Navigation, Guidelines for Displaying Contents, Highlight Information, Using Colour,
Displaying Text, Designing Tables and Lists, Criteria for Form Design, Organization, Consistency,
Completeness, Flexible Entry, Economy, Criteria for Report Design, Relevance, Accuracy, Clarity,
Timeliness, Cost.
Audit and Security of Computer Systems
Introduction, Definition of Audit, Objectives of Audit.
Text Book:
1. Elias M. Award : System Analysis and design; Galgotia
2. James A. Sen : Analysis of Design of Information System TMH
3. Rojer S. Pressman : Software Engineering : A Practitioners Approach,MCH
4. Pankaj Jalote : An Integrated Approach to Software Engineering; Springer.
Reference Book :
1. J. L. Whitten & L. D. Bentley : System Analysis and Design Method; TMH
2. J. B. Dixit & Rajkumar : Structured system Analysis and Dseign; University Science Press
3. K.C. Landon & J. P.Landon : MIS ; Macmillan