BCA-204 PROBLEM SOLVING TECHNIQUE & PROGRAMMING IN C
Fundamentals of C: Identifier and keywords - data types - constants - Variables - Declarations -
Expressions - Statements - Arithmetic, Unary, Relational and logical , Assignment and Conditional
Operators - Library functions. Simple C programs - Flow of control - if, if-else, while, do-while, for
loop, Nested control structures - Switch, break and continue, go to statements - Comma operator.
Functions -Definition - prototypes - Passing arguments – Recursion- Storage Classes - Automatic,
External, Static, Register Variables .
Arrays - Defining and Processing - Passing arrays to functions - Multi-dimension arrays - Arrays
and Strings.
Structures and unions - User defined data types - Passing structures to functions - Self-referential
structures - Unions - Bit wise operations.
Pointers - Declarations - Passing pointers to Functions - Operation on Pointers - Pointer and Arrays
- Arrays of Pointers - Structures and Pointers - Files: Creating, Processing ,Opening and Closing a
data file.
The C Preprocessor: # define to Implement Constants, # define to Create Functional Macros,
Reading from Other Files using # include ,Conditional Selection of Code using #ifdef, Using
#ifdef for different computer types.
Using #ifdef to temporarily remove program statements, Other Preprocessor Commands, Predefined
Names Defined by Preprocessor, Macros Vs Functions.
Files: File Handling in C Using File Pointers, Open a file using the function fopen ( ), Close a file
using the function fclose ( ), Input and Output using file pointers, Character Input and Output in
Files, String Input / Output Functions, Formatted Input / Output Functions, Block Input / Output
Functions, Sequential Vs Random Access Files, Positioning the File Pointer.
Text Book:
1. E. Balaguru Swamy - ANSI C Programming Language, 2nd Edition, PHI, 1988.
2. H. Schildt, C: The Complete Reference, 4th Edition, TMH Edition, 2000.
3. Kanetkar Y., Let us C, BPB Pub., New Delhi, 1999.
4. Reema Thareja - Programming in C
5. Byron Gotlfried – C Programming; Oxford University Press