BCA-403 File & Data Structure
Introduction to Data Structure and Application of Data Structure
Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms: Definition, Structure and Properties of Algorithms,
Development of an Algorithm, Data Structures and Algorithms, Data Structure – Definition and
Classification, Efficiency of Algorithms, Apriory Analysis, Asymptotic Notations, Time Complexity
of an Algorithm using O Notation, Polynomial Vs Exponential Algorithms, Average, Best and Worst
case Complexities, Analyzing Recursive Programs, Open source software development process.
Linked List, Linked Stacks and Linked Queues: Singly Linked Lists, Circularly Linked Lists,
Doubly Linked Lists, Multiply Linked Lists, Applications of Linked Lists, Introduction to Linked
Stack and Linked Queues, Operations on Linked Stacks and Linked Queues, Dynamic Memory
Management and Linked Stack, Implementations of Linked Representations, Applications of
Linked Stacks and Linked Queues.
Arrays, Stacks and Queues: Array Operations, Number of Elements in an Array, Representation
of Arrays in Memory, Applications of Array, Stack-Introduction, Stack Operations, Applications of
Stack, Queues-Introduction, Operations on Queues, Circular Queues, Other Types of Queues,
Applications of Queues, Polynomials & Sparse matrix.
Trees, Binary Trees, BST, AVL Trees and B Trees: Trees: Definition and Basic Terminologies,
Representation of Trees, Binary Trees: Basic Terminologies and Types, Representation of Binary
Trees, Binary Tree Traversals, Threaded Binary Trees, Applications, BST & AVL Trees:
Introduction, BST: Definition and Operations, AVL Trees: Definition and Operations, B Trees:
Introduction, m-way search trees: Definition and Operations, B Trees: Definition and Operations.
Graphs: Introduction, Definitions and Basic Terminologies, Representations of Graphs, Graph
Traversals, Single-Source Shortest-Path Problem, Minimum Cost Spanning Trees.
Sorting: Understanding Internal and External Sorting.
Internal Sorting: Insertion Sort, Bubble Sort, shell sort, Quick Sort, 2-way Merge Sot, Heap
Sort, Sorting on Several Keys.
Searching: Introduction, Binary Search, Transpose Sequential Search, Interpolation Search.
Text Book:
1. G A V Pai – Data Structures and Algorithms: Concepts, Techniques and Applications, 2nd
Edn, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2008.
2. Horowitz E.Sahni, S., Susan A., Fundamentals of Data Structures in C, 2nd Edition, University Press,
2010
Reference Books:
1. J. P. Tremblay , P. G. Sorenson – An Introduction to Data Structures With Applications, 2nd
Edn, McGraw-Hill, Inc. New York, NY, USA.
2. Seymour Lipschutz – Data Structures, 6th Edn, 9th Reprint 2008, Tata McGraw-Hill.
3. Adam Drozdek – Data Structures and Algorithms in C++, Thomson Learning, New Delhi –
2007.
4. J. Feller, B. Fitzgerald -Understanding Open Source Software Development, Pearson
Education Ltd, New Delhi.
5. Aron M. Tenenbaum & Others – Data Structure using C & C++; Pearsons Publications