BCA–303 JAVA PROGRAMMING
Java Evolution and Overview of Java Language: How Java differs from C and C++,Java and
Internet, Java and World Wide Web, Introduction, Simple Java Program, More of Java, An
Application with Two Classes, Java Program Structure, Java Tokens, Java Statements,
Implementing a Java Program, Java Virtual Machine, Command Line Arguments, Programming
Style. Constants, Variables, and Data Types: Introduction, Constants, Variables, Data
Types,Declaration of Variables, Giving Values of Variables, Scope of Variables, Symbolic
Constants, Type Casting, Getting Values of Variables, Standard Default Values.
Operators and Expressions: Introduction, Arithmetic Operators, Relational Operators, Logical
Operators, Assignment Operators, Increment and Decrement Operators, ConditionalOperators,
Bitwise Operators, Special Operators, Arithmetic Expressions, Evolution of Expressions,
Precedence of Arithmetic Operators, Type Conversion in Expressions, Operator Precedence and
Associativity, Mathematical Functions.
Decision Making and Branching: Introduction, Decision Making with if Statement, Simple if
Statement, The if... else Statement, Nesting of if ... else Statements, The else if Ladder, The switch
Statement, The ?: Operator.
Decision Making and Looping: Introduction, The while Statement, The do Statement, The for
Statement, Jumps in Loops, Labelled Loops.
Classes, Objects and Methods: Introduction, Defining a Class, Adding Variables, Adding
Methods, Creating Objects, Accessing Class Members, Constructors, Methods Overloading, Static
Members, Nesting of Methods, Inheritance: Extending a. Class, Overriding Methods, final Variables
and Methods, Final Classes, Finalizer Methods, Abstract Methods and Classes, Visibility Control.
Arrays, String and Vectors: Arrays, One-Dimensional Arrays, Creating an Array, TwoDimensional Arrays, Strings, Vectors, Wrapper Classes. Interfaces: Multiple Inheritance:
Introduction, Defining Interfaces, Extending Interfaces, implementing Interfaces, Accessing
Interface Variables. Packages: Putting Classes Together: Introduction, Java API Packages, Using
system Packages, Naming Conventions, Creating Packages, Accessing a Packages, Using a
Package, Adding a Class to a Package, Hiding Classes. Multithreaded Programming: Introduction,
Creating Threads, Extending the Thread Class, Stopping and Blocking a Thread, Life Cycle of a
Thread, Using Thread Methods, Thread Exceptions, Thread Priority, Synchronization.
Managing Errors and Exceptions: Introduction, Types of Errors, Exceptions, Syntax of Exception
Handling Code, Multiple Catch Statements, Using finally Statement, Throwing Our Own
Exceptions, Using Exceptions for Debugging.Applet Programming: Introduction, How Applets
Differ from Application, Preparing to Write Applets, Building Applet Code, Applet Life Cycle,
Creating an Executable Applet, Designing a Web Page, Applet Tag, Adding Applet to HTML File,
Running the Applet, More About Applet Tag, Passing Parameters to Applets.
Managing Input/Output Files in Java: Introduction, Concepts of Streams Stream Classes, Byte
Stream Classes, Character Stream Classes, Using Streams, Other Useful I/O Classes, using the File
Class, Input/Output Exceptions, Creation of Files.
Text Book:
1. E. Balagurusamy, Programming with Java, A Primer Second Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, New
Delhi.
Reference Books:
1. H.M.Deitel & P.J.Deitel- JA V A- How to Program, 5th Edn, Pearson Education,New Delhi2004.
2. P.Naughton and H. Schildt-JAVA: The Complete Reference, TMH, New Delhi 2005.
3. D.Jana- Java and Object Oriented Programming Paradigm, PHI, New Delhi-2005.