BBA 104 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IN MANAGEMENT – 1
[OFFICE / PRODUCTIVITY SUITES]
Section I
 Basic components of computer system: Functional units and their interrelation.
 Types of computer system: Computer categories & classification.
 Information Technology : Introduction, New Developments, Information Systems,
Software and data, Application of IT in Business & Industry, Home, Education & Training,
Entertainment & Arts, Science, Engineering and Math.
 Communication - The Electronic Web: Network Applications: Fax, voice, Information
Services, Person to person Communication, Group Communication;
 LAN: Architecture, System; Introduction to WAN; Link between Networks: Devices &
Media, Protocol and dial up access.
 World Wide Web: Introduction, Web access through online services, Using Web Browser.
 Internet and Intranet: Meaning of Internet; Difference between the Internet and
Intranet: Introduction to TCP/IP; Setting up an Internet, what is Internet addressing, IP
address; types of Internet connections, sending and reading e-mails.
Section II
 MS - Excel: Concepts of spreadsheet, building a spreadsheet application using formulae,
conditional calculations and inbuilt functions; printing worksheets; using graph plotting
capabilities of spreadsheet package to display and print graphs; database management &
interfacing spreadsheets with database systems; writing macros and creating customized
menus with macros.
 MS - Word: Creating and editing files, basic formatting and text enhancement, block
operations, printing, file management global searches & substitutions, special print features
merging files with mail merge, checking spelling with spell star, index & table of contents.
 MS - PowerPoint: Creation of new slides; Slides from templates; Animation effects;
Inserting objects in the slides; Creating hyperlinks; embedding audio/video files.
Section III
 Windows: What is Windows, using the programme manager to run programme, creating and
using ICONS, using the file manager to work with directions, files and disks; customizing
windows with the control panel, installing a printer and using the print manager using
windows accessories like windows write, paintbrush etc.
 Linux: Introduction; Flavors of Linux – Debian Family, Red Hat Family; Graphical Desktop
Display Managers – GNOME, Unity, KDE - features, functions, customizations, default
programmes, software management. LibreOffice suite, GIMP, Inkscape, Scribus.
Text Books:
1. ITL, ESL, (2005) Introduction to Infotech, 1st edition, Pearson Education.
2. Goyal, Anita, (2010) Computer Fundamentals, 1st Edition, Pearson Education.
Reference Books:
1. Joseph A. Brady and Ellen F Monk, (2007) Problem Solving Cases in Microsoft and Excel,
Fourth Annual Edition, Thomson Learning.
2. Rajaraman, V., (2009) Introduction to Information Technology, Prentice Hall of India.